Hi, this is Colin Levy. How are you?

I, sort of be cool, to actually go to the process of doing some layout

since I was on my major responsibility for Durian

I thought, might be constructive to, acutally, do the whole sequence

basically with characters locking, bringing in rigs, and animating basic locking

and also, working with camera switching and camera animating

so, let's think of a scene using our assets

basically let's use Sintel of course

how about the market scene and one of the guardians

ok, so Sintel is trying to buy a piece of fruit from a guardian, who is just a vendor at the market

this is a scene that was never conceived

alright, so, we've got blender open

let's just delete everything that is here

and I'm just gonna go ahead and save this

so I'm gonna save this in place where we normally save the scene, which is in the ..\pro\scenes\

and I wanna just call this "fakeScene.blend". beautiful.

so now we are here

the reason I'm doing that is because we are about to link in some files

and it's important that we have our project saved, so that the relative library links work

so, let's link in, first, our character Sintel

so, I'm pressing Ctrl Alt O

but you can also go File -> Link, this is the same thing

and I'm just gonna navigate to our "chars" directory

..\pro\chars\sintel.blend

and I'm just gonna find the group that we specificly want

then we want her, you know, to have a back pack on

sure, why not

Umm, no armour£¬blablabla....

"Sintel_Winter"? No

"Sintel_Backpack" should be good

so, as you can see here she is fully rigged

I whould actually like her without a coat

now that I think about it. X

gonna try "_backpack" with a lowercase be.

see what that does

oh, very self-explanatory

OK£¬so now we've got Sintel

but what if I wannt her in a different pose

right now, we can't really do anything, except rotate and scale

and, so, what we need to do is bringing in her rig

how do you do that?

it's a special feature

go on to Object menu, and say Make Proxy

and, it asks you what would you make a proxy, the "rig"

so I just go on to "sintel.blend", take the rig

and make that proxy, which means that the rig is now here, kind of local mode

can really go into Edit Mode

in... can you? no, can only go into the Pose Mode

and it's a lot easy to actually pose your characters

even though they are linked in

then, go ahead and turn on Simplify on

because she's got hairing stuff

they will really slow down the performance

and actually, why whould I use the high resolution rig here, or model?

that's just a waste of resources

so, I'm also going to link in "sintel_simple"

and that's the proxy version of the animator's using

as you see here, they are overlapping

but if you are going to the rig and go to Pose Mode

this time going Ctrl Tab to do that

you'll see how the pose or the amarture deforms both models

so what I'll do here is just delete "sintel_simple"

well, actually I've just deleted the "backpack"

but, because we are here, I'll show you how you can very easily switch between the two models

you can go, can select it, going to the Object tab, go down to Duplication,and under Group

change it to "sintel_backpack"

and, the animation, everything you have, should remain the same

so, I'm gonna go back to "sintel_simple", dudududu....

so here we go, we've got the character, great

step one complete

now we need to put her in the envionment

so thankfully as Soenke and Pablo have already done this for us

so, again, Ctrl Alt O

I'm gonna navigate to the ..\env_city\ directory

er... "chicken_run", yes, so "chicken_run" is actually the name of the market

so gonna go into the Group

Hoo! this time I see a lot of choices

"ground"? well, we want more than a ground

"chicken_run_proxy"? we want a little more detail

because I wannt know, I wanna a place right there for our particular stand

so I'm just gonna say, oh gees, "chicken_run"? that's generic

hopefully it will be what I want

link slash append from a library....

wait, as blender thinks...

OK what's going on...

Alright, I'm gonna clear the oringin, clear its location

alright, it's already there

so, wow, look at this

we've got this great scene here

and I've no idea where Sintel is

Oh, probably at the origin, OK

so, let's just say that I want.... in a fly around, because that may be a little eaiser to navitate

I want her to stand right in front of this low guy

we'll put... OK£¬ she'll stand right here

and a guardian guy will be... I don't know, close by

so where's Sintel

right here

I'm gonna grab her... in Pose Mode

I want her location, transmations, to be at 0 0 0

surely that I can take the whole object and move it around

that causes problems

instead, I'm going into Pose Mode

and then put her where I want her to be

alright, so she's standing relatively, you know, to the little barrels

now let's just say, you know, for layout settings, I need to populate the barrel with stuff

but because we have the option, just gonna place 3D cursors there

pop it up there, dong dong....

and maybe I mean the mold for some vegetables

so I'm going to go in the "..\envs\prop\" directory

let's see, "props_city" -> "fruite"

we don't have any vegetables

"fruits" - I'll have to do

and then.... I dont't want "apples", I hate apples

"market_props" -> "group"

"Fish'... "Cucumber", that's vegetable. "Pumpkin", "Squashes"...

OK, just bring all those guys, anything else... "VeggieGroups", perfect, in here

and, I got exactly one of them

is that correct?

alright, let's see if I can add a Group Instance

"Veggiegroup", interesting

so, for some reason they didn't all pop... woo..

but they have been linked in

so if I go to Shift A -> "Group Instance"

I can then, sort of, look through what are already linked in

and just, yep, add different things

um... what else... I'm gonna get a "CumcumberBasket", beautiful

alright, so now we have Sintel standing in front of these barrels

hum.. let's get rid of that, I don't like that

and she wants to order, you know, these cucumbers, or this pumpkin

but we don't have anything for her... I mean right now she can just steal it and no one would know

we need a vendor

so let's go into the "..\chars\" directory again

and bring in a vendor

now we have a lot of options

we could bring in a guardian, or the guardians we did in end-up using

could do that

we could even bring in "hyena", she could be buying it from hyena

but let's bring in "proog", because proog is fine

so, "ishtarian_proog", go into "Group" -> "Proog"

and, Proog is dancing on the barrels

OK, we'll place him behind

and to constain, I know he's basically on the ground now

because he's intersecting, and I'm gonna hit G

and I'm gonna contrain with Shift Z

so that I can push him back in space without having be in an orthographic view

now I'm gonna rotate him, and by hitting Z, I can constain this rotation, as well.

actually I just, sort of, contradict myself

because now you'll see in the Transformations, he's not at 0 0 0

that is bad, bad colin, alright... 0 0 0, good

now where's he?

he's right there exactly where I want him

in, you know, maybe he's taking a bath..

hehe, OK, so we are going to "Make Proxy" here

and bring in the rig "WomanA-rig"

I don't love, like... I'm fine

OK, for some reason the rig in Proog's file is called "WomanA-rig"

which is, for some reason, I think it's slanderous

OK£¬so, now we've got problem

Proog's root bone is nowhere to be seen

so I can't even move him

this is because the rig layer has disappeared, that's an issue

so, let me see where is it

I'm gonna have to go into the 'Amature", a little setting here

and I have to know that bone is on the 4th to last...

see? I was toggling it on and off

it's on the 4th to last layer

probably pretty handy you've kown that

so now, just gonna move him up

and across, and place him

now all these stuff is just basically set up£¬the scene's setup

but it takes a long time actually

you know, what's your characters are there, you can actually start getting worked on

so, now we've got these characters emulateing each other

maybe they are doing yoga

but we prefer that they would be in a more natural pose

so I'm gonna just start posing them

let's have a like looking, sort of, increasing lively

hum... she can, maybe, have her hand on a chain, like...

hum... you know, in dicision making mode

she doesn't have much money

so, she's gotta be really making these dicisions really carefully

we do have a lot of extra bones, showing up here, you can see

we don't need all those

in fact that some bones that I want to access, which are not there

so you'll notice if you explore in the animation scenes

that if you select Sintel's amature

usually on the right-hand column

you'll have these really handy rig buttons

which allow you to show or hide a varies of bone groups, control groups

and these are not here right now

why is that?

well, turns out, you have to link in a script, separately run it

and then it will be part of the scene

so I'll show you what this is

I'm gonna save this first

go back to "Link" in Ctrl Alt O

go back to "sintel"

and then in the "Text" pannel we'll see "sintel_rig_props.py"

so for each of the characters, Nathan has settled up so that there is, basically, a python script that runs on mode,

which, basically, adds this functionally in Properties view

so I'm just gonna link this

and you will see that isn't actually shown up, that doesn't do anything

this first time, let's open the view, you have to actually run it

so I would go to the Text view... Text Editor

open up this

a lot of awsome python

check down and understand

and I'll just say Run

well see what's next happens, I got Colloquy

so I'm just gonna log on the irc

and see is he's online

he is online

"ideasman_42: you, how's it going?"

"you know Nathan's rig_prop.py scriopt for all the rigged characters?"

sorry for the detour

so it looks like, although Campbell is on, he's not responding

and I don't know what to do

so I'm gonna just hide this

go back to blender

hit "Run Script" a few times

hope it starts to work

OK, it's not going to look in the concole for now

so, I don't know

but basically what that nice one, I think, did, is a handy shortcut for actually what these buttons do

so I could just go here, and I want all those interior things to go away

go away... no idea what these are doing

OK, so that cover up those

and I want finger controls, don't want them strict

here we go, so, it's not nearly as nice as they are labeled like they were here

no worries that, we can continue our work

I would complain to Campbell when he's back

so here we go

I'm just gonna continue our left-off

can both select these fingers and rotate them

you know, hum, acutally I prefer to use IK

now IK switching is also a beautiful property that Nathan had in his lower property, seen here

unfortunately that's also not handy any more

but I can still go to this guy and turn the... god! cover!

I, you know, less comfortable with blender than I really should be up to all this time

but basically I've found the layer on which the IK hand is

and I've already put that on, uh, OK

so this layer is the left hand IK controller

the reason looks like this all geommetrical stuff is because Simplify

if I put this back to where, whatever, it's nice and smooth, it's beautiful

hum, and if you select this controller in the Properties pannel, you'll see IK

so in this case, I just felt like it's combined some to control kokokoko...

it's actually, FK is great for animation because you get nice arcs for free

but for layout you're just doing a single pose to convey something really quickly

so in this case, I was generally using IK

because animators' gonna start over from scratch, any way

and now I wanna get rid of this guy

so, alright, I guess I did it right

for this arm, so I'm gonna re-pose that still a lot of extra bones that I completely do not need

alright, bababa dada...

and her elbow is pointing to the sky

I'm gonna lower that with pole target

hum, I wonder what I can get, what can I afford

and I'm gonna just move her a little bit closer

I hate trackball rotation

I don't know why I'm using it

turn to tables, so, much better

alright, so this is also FK

I'm going to do the same thing

I can just find the... uh! there we go... the IK layer

now I'll get rid of the other layer, there we go, beautiful

I'm learning more about Nathan's work

methodology here

I was organizing these layers

and here's the pole target again

I also like to turn off the relationships

Over here, Display -> Relationship Lines

because I though them kinda structive and necessary

so, see the difference

I'm gonna try to figure out what layer these green and yellow bones are

because it's completely with nuts, supposing what we'll be doing

uh, it's more of the... OK, good

OK, huh, I'm all set, perfect

so we've got Sintel here, and pose

that's more or less, you know, tells a story that what's going on

not really what I want here

just a little bit of spread, stands, so it's not so perfect

so let's gonna R -> Z  to constain

there we go, alright

it still currently bammed, awkward, but OK

now I'm gonna have Proog to shift our attention to him

and, you know what, Turntable, where are you? thank you

so much better

and I'm gonna have him sort of like the film

if you notice he's just got his hand on his hips

so this I can also do it with IK

but I'm almost afraid of searching for that

nope? I got a first try now. Perfect

just gonna turn the IK on for both of them

bring it down here, bring it down here

sometimes when there's a lot of stuff in the way

first I should be using layers

so, this envionment, I'm just gonna put on layer 2

you would notice now really how we get that things

actually, why I wanna do this?

I'm gonna put Sintel on layer 1, she's already there

Proog on layer 2

I'm changing this with the M key

and then, gonna switch to layer 2

move these guys to layer 6

so that we get things less on our guys

because here's local view

to be an isolator here, you know, what you are working on

but any way, you get this, not caring too much

remember, this is layout, not animations

you have excuse to do sucky work

alright, so there we go

we've got this man, this very handsome man, sort of putting his hands on his hips

don't you there think about stealing my protos, young lady?

move these guys to layer 6, as well

just so, it... within environment

and viewing them together, you see we've got a scene set up

yea, that waited too long!

so now, what's gonna happen in the scene?

so Sintel can, maybe, look over, so we start with the closeup of her

sort of scanning the protos, then would cut to a point of view shot, how about.

so would just get what she's seeing

it's gonna be a panning shot, the route across

then, at the end of the shot, we will have her hand coming in

she'll take the....er... I don't know, a basket or something

and we'll get a medium shot of Proog

and he'll slap her

so that's gonna take a little bit of time

so bear with me

but, I'm just gonna setup the camera

now I wonder if this is actually going to work

"add tripod", OK, no

Nathan made a really fantastic camera rig, that was, he built into an operator

all he did was constructive and very basic, you know, servious relationships with empties and camera

to give me some controls

but we really don't need it in this case

and I never really used all of the features that it really had

so it's more, because I thought it's cool

so I'm just gonna add a camera

and, here we go, it pointed at the ground, perfect

and like I said, we will start with closer upon Sintel

so I'm just going to rotate it into place

I'm constaining along the X axis with "X"

I'm gonna scale it down

that doesn't change a thing

just how it displays in 3D

let's gotta put the view so that we can start looking at actually what the camera is seeing

and hitting Numpad 0 to look through it

now for getting any further

I'm going to change the resolution

so, what we are doing for Durian was 4096 x 1744

and, 50%, that's OK

with the right aspect Ratio which was 2.35 to 1

so, again, I'm going to here and dull it out with Z Z that pushes it back locally

on its own, sort of normal, you know

such like dulling straight back

so, we can also in this view, press Shift F, to fly around

but until we use scroll wheel, it actually was just panning

once we start scrolling, then we are actually moving

but it's nice to reframe things

also, the tool that I was using is double R

so we've got the camera selected here

and I can hit double R

and, as I move around, this is also a way, sort of, like we're grabbing on the background

it's mainly useful if you hit double R and then Shift

because that slows it down, then it's more like, you know, fine tuning composition

so, in any case, we've got this

scale it down a little bit more

and camera doesn't really need to be animated here

but I'm going to be using the camera switching system that blender has

so, I wanna link the camera a marker

so that the next camera I add will switch on 2nd marker

so I'm just gonna go onto the Timeline, hit M

and then, since it's already selected and already active, and hit Ctrl B

and now you'll see it displayed on this marker that has little tiny dotted line

and that indicates this is linked up to this camera

perfect

so, in this view, I'm gonna turn off... oh, then she disappears, it's fine

OK, perfect

I'm just gonna have her looking

so I'm an animator actually

first, keyframe of the scene

gonna start on frame 3

and insert rotation with eye

go to frame 30

and insert another keyframe

and, so, of course that would be a little bit more a second

she looks over, OK, perfect

now I wanna add another camera

so I'm... actually just because we are pretty close...

I'm gonna duplicate this camera

duplicate the camera, and rotate it

and since we want it to be above her point of view

we'll just sort of situate it

let me move this camera to the first layer

so that we can, sort of... you knew that

and now, let's add a 2nd marker

to going to Timeline again, pressing M

now, I need to make this 2nd camera active

right now, you can tell the active camera by looking at that triangle, which appears over the camera

so here we've got this camera, and it's solid triangle

and this 2nd camera we've just duplicated, which had a non-filled-in triangle

and so, to make it active, we're gonna press Ctrl Numpad 0

so with it selected, now we're gonna jump into that camera

and... hum, interesting...

so, appearently, it's purview

because in this view, we've got the selected camera as active

and this view, very curious

maybe I'll just stay here, too, very interesting

regardless that shouldn't actually cause the problem

but... then go in here, and Ctrl B

and you can also do the same thing, with View -> Bind Camera to Markers

so now we've got 2 cameras, 2 markers

and if I scroll up, dududududu....

you'll see how the camera actually changes, beautiful

so now let's animate the 2nd camera

I'm gonna animate it right here in the view

set a keyframe here

and since it should just be a pan

that replicates her view point

I'm going to, just set 2 rotation keyframes

now, screen direction wise

Sintel, in the shot, is looking from the left to the right

so it make sense that she's looking like so

so in this shot, it should actually start, sort of, over here, you know

set a keyframe, on the same frame, and then, you know, should be more whoso,too, likt so

you'll notice also that I haven't changed the focal length of these cameras

so I wanna go ahead and do that

because usually, you know, unot everything should be shot with a 35 length

this one, let's make it either tether, if you wanna see the beautiful detail on the tomatos

or what, we can try the width, I'll do a lot of experimentation

let's try an 18 milimeters length

she's just looking that all in

wow, look at all the selection

now, to, sort of tweak, the specific self of how the camera moves

I usually open up the Graph Editor

and start playing with curves

so you can change the timing

it's kind of start earlier

we can change how it eases in to a key

and you can even add noise modifier which we'll use greatly for handheld effect

so maybe we will through that onto our cameras

but any way, now we have to see her hand going in the frame

and picking something up, say, this basket

that starts becoming a little bit more complex

how's that gonna work?

is that gonna work in the shot?

I don't know

so let's, sort of, half way through the camera's pan

let's key Sintel's hand

gonna add location & rotation keyframe

go a few frames forward

and just find the 2nd position

now this is kinda stuff usually requires a lot of cheating

so we will see what make sense

by the way, I will really encourage anyone who's interested in this kind of stuff

to look at this video serious called Hollywood Camera Work

it's a really amazing resource for cinematography and film makers

doesn't even have to be in 3D actually

it cared more fly action

but all of the examples are done in 3D, sort of, like what we are doing right now

so, I'm just gonna moving this control beyond where she's actually able to go

so I can also key her pelvis and root

so she can move forward appropriately to let her get that close

so, right now, obviously, there are some issues

we do not wanna see this in our shot

but, I'll show you a little trick

that I view in several times

that is, I gonna select the camera

by the way, if asking an easy way to get the camera

when you are like this, and sort of, you know, embeded within the character

you can hit Ctrl Right click on the marker

and I'll switch to it, pretty cool

and I'm gonna change the clip start,and as I just push that up

it's not actually seen anything, until, you know, after Sintel's face

so, a little bit stupid, it's not really the best

wait in shooting something

but it works for our case

it's gonna keyframe this hand goind down

and now you can see that is really kinda like her point of view

just pretty cool

her hand is coming in there, just gonna grab something

as for the 2nd complicity, I'm just gonna keyframe the basket and her hand and sort of constraining it

which is what I wanna normally do

and animating a constraint

normally I would be...

normally a hand would come in here

at animated constraint from 0 to 1

and then I'd only still be animating the hand

but suddently the second object would move with it

and set all just for the keyframes on both, since it is easier

so, putting in keyframe here

just forward 10 frames

going back to this hand, bringing it back, dododo...

and since AutoKey is not on, I'm gonna turn it on, since I usually use it

but I have to hit "I" every time

then I gonna move the basket to... sort of, come along

and since AutoKey is now on, I didn't have to hit I any more

so this is really a horrible example of the scene

but hope it's not completely unvaluable, so...

uh, it's not gonna work at all

but I wanna just scrab

oh, look, cucumbers...

hand comes in

she holds them back and...

how about I... I wanna cut the tool with sort of a medium to shot

so you can see Proog on the left, and Sintel on the right

just to follow these actions

kinda cutting on the action

so I'm just gonna add another camera

rotate it up

actually, clear the rotation

constrain it on the X axis just select it and doesn't get any wacky

rotations around

I'm gonna look through it with Ctrl Numpad 0

Ctrl B

so now we are here, I'll bring it back a little with Shift F and then scroll the wheel

and look at Proog,as well

this guy is pretty tall, we can change him down

but I'm just gonna change the length, so it's more forgiving

one thing I do a lot is rotate around the empty

so if I know, basically, like this composition

but I need to be closer to Sintel

I can rotate, like so, just as sort of metrix thing, just pretty sweet

I gotta push in a little

alright, it's kinda nice, well it's knida nice, compsition is there

I'll be doing a lot of tweaking

but anyways, I like this, so would cut from this point of view to....

huh, Autokey was on

I do not want that animation

so I'm gonna delete one of the keys

do that a lot

dododo...

OK, so that sort of works

or pretend it does

and then finally, yes, slapped, doesn't it

so, just gonna animate, well, "I" keys for all this

and then I'm gonna have anticipation, and the actual action

so, anticipation, and it is really a bad habit to actually animate from the camera view

but, why not

gonna key all these fingers, which means setting a key before

then previous, then key again

rotating them up, spreading them out

gonna bringt them back

wow, really deformed

and then, bring that forward

now, an issue is that Sintel is completely way to far

and if this is actually written in the script that Proog slaps Sintel

would affect that there is actually a fruit stand separating them

but you can grow arams, actually just lean forward really far

aha, so it's gonna work

just have to cheat a little bit

I'll take here, dadadada...

and, it's interesting because we probably only have to make this work in screen space

althrough it's usually best not to cheat at all, you know, as little as necessary

but as well as it looks right, that's all matters

I here to see he's actually making context, so actually I have to cheat it all

and then just sort of followed through

so I can twist him around, ya

I'm gonna bring his hand over

as in a look "Grrr... you deserve that for picking those cucumbers!"

so now it's animating incrediblely and steadily

as pulling his head back where it needs to be

perfect slap

it'll all set to animate Sintel's reaction

but you know that's a pretty quick way to establish a thought, or, you know, the action

now we got to time it out 

so right now... that's how fast it is

and it's definately too slow, the actual arm moving into the space

so I'm going to change the view to the Dopesheet

and look at Proog

and I'm gonna look at only Proog by hitting the little cursor thing

selecting all

so these are all the channels of animation on Proog

now it's this portion that is way too slow

so, if I hit Summary, I can just take, by clicking the top keyframes on this summary, sort of sheet

as select all the ones, little peer, on that frame, on all the channels

so, dadada... perfect

so a lot of snap here

so now, I'm just gonna hide... normally I would hit Only Render

but what we've done is to return renderability of all the proxy models

so makes it harder to see

OK. so the time doesn't work for her, actually taking away the basket of cucumbers

so, again, in the Dopesheet, I'm going to look at everything

we've got animation on several things

gonna unhide Sintel's rigs that she also shows up

and this is something that happens very often

usually I'm editing someting in the sequence with multiple cameras, camera animation, blocking, character constaints... a lot

it gets very complex and very fast

one of the tools that helps keep everything, sort of, sinked up when I retiming things is to have the...

where is it... "Sync Markers" option checked

so that means the camera switch will still happen in the same time

if I want to a long give on the time takes Sintel to grab the cucumber basket

I can do so in the Dopesheet and have it... and sort of push the cut back with the action, which is really handy

so I can select all the keys in front of the playhead with Ctrl Right click

and in this case, I think it's all of these keys we should need

stretching, so just gonna pull that back

and you can see how that stretched

and now this, Sintel... there are so many little (dots)...yeah, I would move those ones, too

dadada... perfect. alright

so now let's watch

ha, we've got a beautiful scene here

all I have to do is sort of animating Sintel real quick to go "Ah...", you know

and, you know, sort of a tearing closeup

you know, what you are doing? why? you know I gonna pay for these... kind of thing

but hopefully that's a lot exclutive, and, sort of, how you go about setting up a scene

(my phone is ringing...)

because I was basically to save this out 

put that on edit, to see how it works

if I'm pretty heavy with the timging, I whould save out individual animation files for each of the shots

so I put, since it starts here, start frame, end frame

save this out, F with a 2 (¼´F2), as, you know, "03.1a.blend¡°

and that becomes a shot, you get it animated

in this case there will be flies, buzzing around it

the camera, with them getting animated, would be a little bit better

then I'll go on to the next shot, start, and end

and this is the... oh, right, OK, this one would be this: Sintel's looking around

so the animator would then have 29 frame to have Sintel, you know, actually acting, which is now she's doing here

but it is really cool and fun way to quickly make a movie without putting all the effort into the new onces performance

and also, you know, it would be foolish to actually do that kind of thing 

because this is basically experimental face at its core

it's like I mean to try something out, idea

to see how the visual flow works,

how, you know, the story's told,

what idea's being communicated 

what's the right placing

you know, what's the best way to shoot, you know, the scene

and absolutely have evert shot dicision that you make, every camera places been

there's probably something better up there

there has to be a reason why you can't tour a wide shot, versus, you know, a close upon the other character

or, you know, as recorder of view, versus, straight on, all these things is a lot of theory there above, you know, above cinematography

so, yeah, I would go to that Hollywood Camera Work thing

it's also a really good book

"Shot by Shot"

can attract in "Shot by Shot"

it has really a cool way of, I don't know, talking about, you know, composition and...

Oh, One other thing I wanna show you, real quick, is noise modifier

because that's up there and pretty funny

so let's see this slapping shot, right here

we want make him really greedy

sort of born identity like

so I'm gonna select that 

I wanna go into the Graph Editor

and look at its channels

and usually, actually, the most radical changes that you perceive in a camera's motion is rotation

when you think about it, this much rotation... like this much rotation

is this is a lens and you're looking, you know, if you are looking really far

sort of a tether, a focal lens, this much difference would be perceive general obviously on screen

while if you put forward, and you zooming isn't really far, it won't be as perceptible

anyway, I feel like, for the most part, noise modifiers work better for rotation channels than location

so I wanna go into X roation, which is this... and add modifier "Noise"

and let's see what this does

hwa.... a little bit much, a little bit much

so i'm gonna reduce it, I'm gonna expand it so we can actually conceive what we are doing

then reduce, so, that's the speed of the effect and this is in the intensity

so, still way too much

actually most of my values in the 2nd property were like the greatest with 0.02

so that's actually still pretty intense... ya, maybe not in this case

aha... choo...
 
and, you know, this kinda stuff takes a lot of experimentation

and it's good to actually a kind of layer, noise modifier, see if you've got like the giddier

and you've got the over all motion for that

I feel like, generally, I would prefer to key that myself

so, now I'm going to the Y, do the same thing with noise

this is really, you know, you can really go overboard of this

and maybe there are some shots were, I have, you know

it's so fun to play with

OK, so this is yaw

alright, Z

oh my god, I'm gonna push forward

this needs to crash dully

so, keyframe here, and then just gonna push forward

Shift F, poo...oh my god

oh, haha, so here we go, we've got a beautiful shot and the scene with a real smart to the face

it's gonna make the audience, you know, unwrapped in applause, I don't know, in fear and shock

and they will love you forever

so, probably should do a followup that's a little bit more based in reality, terms of like

I mean, I could show the thought went into a certain scene, I can break down the scene, maybe

but, yep, let me know if you have questions, or if you have request on some what is exactly you would like to know about, layout, for example

anyway, I hope this is mildly amusing

and entertaining, I mean educational

amd I'll see you soon







