Hello, my name is David REVOY
welcome to this video tutorial series indicated to 2D digital painting
with free and open sources softwares
this video would mainly show you how I manage my graffiti process through a simple illustration
I will use three softwares
the first is Alchemy
for the external story creative start
the second is Mypaint
as the main painting program
and finally the third is Gimp
with the patch "Gimp-for -Painter" and toolset "Gimp Paint Studio" for mainly image manipulation
All of these are on my favourite operating system - Linux Mint
So let's get in
-------
To Protect sensitives ears against the French accent, all the following video will be musical.
This is a message from the O.P.A.B.T.S., the Organisation of Protection Against Bad Tutorial Speech
-------
Music: Kevin MacLeod
"Willow and the Light"
incompetech.com
Licensed under Creative Commons
"Attribution 3.0"
-------
1. Chaos with Alchemy
Alchemy look at first as a basic 2D tools, but it have originals features.
In this tutorial, I show how to use it as a CHAOS generator.
As you can see, the user interface is pretty minimalistic.
Just go over the top apps to let appear the main toolbar
We can add effects or modifier on the brush stroke to have more random shapes.
I use mainly "Speed shapes" and "Pull shapes" here.
Pretty chaos :)
But for what???
We want here to be creative, and to have a totally new result.
Starting from a Chaos is a great solution.
Chaos will bring us incredible new organics and geometrics shapes
and we will just underline what we see from it
As children play to guess "What this could look like?" during watching the sky.
A strong creative process.
I underline here in red a girl faces to better show you what I see in this chaos at first
And I try to render the 2D way what I see using the "solid shape" brush with just opacity
I didn't like a lot this idea. So I just continue my Chaos work over.
In Alchemy, no "undo"
New shapes appear very fast, and also depend of personal interpretation
I would be curious to know what do you see in all those splatters of shape.
It's kind revelant most of the time....
Now you understand the process, let's speed the video to the end of this first part.
That's all for the Alchemy part, of course Alchemy can do a lot of other things, this will be in future's videos. :)
---------------
Music: Kevin MacLeod
"Perigrine Grandeur"
incompetech.com
Licensed under Creative Commons
"Attribution 3.0"
---------------
2. Black and white painting
I opened Gimp to prepare my drawing a bit:
I need to make it darker (multiply layer) and resize this base to a higher resolution.
After, I switch to Mypaint and start a paint over with my basic brush set (you can find it on the Mypaint forum).
I start with the head: the main focal point.
At this step I use the mirror a lot;
It help my eyes to have a refreshing view of the face, and see all my proportions errors.
After finishing to paint the face, I switch to Gimp to correct the proportions with a simple cut/transform/paste process.
I crop too the artwork to a better size using the good option of the crop tools "rules of the third" that display an helpful gird.
I paint a bit with Gimp to reconstruct voids parts,
but all the brush are very slow at this resolution.
I start also to light some part, using layer blending modes.
back to Mypaint. I paint on the whole surface of the painting, keeping a view mode that display all my illustration on the screen.
I continue the B&W painting.
I keep it speed painting to go to the next step: Color!
----------
Music: Kevin MacLeod
"Night of the Owl"
Incompetech.com
Licensed under Creative Commons
"Attribution 3.0"
-----------
To color my black & white speed painting
I use mostly layers with blending mode (color/multiply/dodge)
I also flatten image very often,
and use the tools as "levels","color curves", "colorise", "hue/saturation" to adjust better colors.
Color step is always the best moment to try a lot of possibility:
Here I focus on cold blue/green palette, with my focus points more warms.
When I'm happy with the general palette, I switch to Mypaint.
All Mypaint's tools can have custom keyboard shortcuts.
-----------
4. Details
Details step is very long...
It represents around 60% of all the drawing time
This timelapse video is accelerate;
time is between 25 and 30 times more than normal
At normal time speed, all this illustration took 7hour and 30min.
I did it in 3 steps, and on 2 different days.
All details are created with the same creative process in part.1...
I always try to recognise in random shaping something.
All ideas born during the painting,
I didn't block myself to an idea at first.
That's the most pleasant way to paint.  :-)
Still switching Between Mypaint and Gimp all the time...
Blending layers as "Multiply" or "Dodge" are very useful to fix shadows.
-----------
5. Finishing
Back to Mypaint, I use the brush system to create some textures
and continuing adding details
At the end, I switch a last time in Gimp to do the final crop, and paste my signature.
The End
Thanks for watching
